## Part Ⅱ	                 Listening Comprehension            (30 minutes)

### Section A

Directions: In this section, you will hear 8 short conversations and 2 long conversations. At the end of each conversation, one or more questions will be asked about what was said. Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After each question there will be a -pause. During the pause, you must read the four choices marked A), B), C) and D), and decide which is the best answer. Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.

1. [[201501.mp4#t=00:51.602|00:51]] 

A) They admire the courage of space explorers.

B) They were going to watch a wonderful movie.

C) They enjoyed the movie on space exploration.

D) They like doing scientific exploration very much.

2. [[201501.mp4#t=01:20.709|01:20]] 

A) In a school library.

B) At a gift shop.	

C) In the office of a travel agency.

D) At a graduation ceremony.

3. [[201501.mp4#t=01:48.780|01:48]] 

A) He used to work in the art gallery.	

B) He does not have a good memory.	

C) He is not interested in any part-time jobs.

D) He declined a job offer from the art gallery.

4. [[201501.mp4#t=02:17.421|02:17]] 

A) He will be unable to attend the birthday party.

B) The woman should have informed him earlier.

C) He will go to the birthday party after the lecture.

D) Susan has been invited to give a lecture tomorrow.

5. [[201501.mp4#t=02:43.977|02:43]] 

A) Set a deadline for the staff to meet.	

B) Assign more workers to the project.	

C) Reward those having made good progress.

D) Encourage the staff to work in small groups.

6. [[201501.mp4#t=03:10.630|03:10]] 

A) Where she can leave her car.	

B) The rate for parking in Lot C.	

C) How far away the parking lot is.

D) The way to the visitors parking.

7. [[201501.mp4#t=03:37.902|03:37]] 

A) He regrets missing the classes.	

B) He has benefited from exercise.	

C) He plans to take the fitness classes.

D) He is looking forward to a better life.

8. [[201501.mp4#t=04:02.028|04:02]] 

A) How to select secretaries.	

B) How to raise work efficiency.	

C) The responsibilities of secretaries.

D) The secretaries in the man’s company.

Questions 9 to 11 are based on the conversation you have just heard. [[201501.mp4#t=04:33.475|04:33]] 

9. [[201501.mp4#t=06:17.377|06:17]] 

A) It is used by more people than English.

B) It is more difficult to learn than English.

C) It will be as commonly used as English.

D) It will eventually become a world language.

10. [[201501.mp4#t=06:36.244|06:36]] 

A) Its popularity with the common people.

B) The effect of the Industrial Revolution.	

C) The influence of the British Empire.

D) It’s loan words from many languages.

11. [[201501.mp4#t=06:54.648|06:54]] 

A) It has a growing number of newly coined words.

B) It includes a lot of words from other languages.

C) It is the largest among all languages in the world.

D) It can be easily picked up by overseas travellers.

Questions 12 to 15 are based on the conversation you have just heard. [[201501.mp4#t=07:14.332|07:14]] 

12. [[201501.mp4#t=08:48.365|08:48]] 

A) To place an order.	

B) To apply for a job.	

C) To return some goods.

D) To make a complaint.

13. [[201501.mp4#t=09:07.697|09:07]] 

A) He works on a part-time basis for the company.

B) He has not worked in the sales department for long.

C) He is not familiar with the exact details of the goods.

D) He has become somewhat impatient with the woman.

14. [[201501.mp4#t=09:26.577|09:26]] 

A) It is not his responsibility.	

B) It will be free for large orders.	

C) It depends on a number of factors.

D) It costs &15 more for express delivery.

15. [[201501.mp4#t=09:45.479|09:45]] 

A) Make inquiries with some other companies.

B) Report the information to her superior.

C) Pay a visit to the saleswoman in charge.

D) Ring back when she comes to a decision.

### Section B

Directions: In this section, you will hear 3 short passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear some questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C), and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.

Questions 16 to 18 are based on the passage you have just heard. [[201501.mp4#t=10:37.191|10:37]] 

16. [[201501.mp4#t=12:17.368|12:17]] 

A) No one knows for sure when they came into being.

B) No one knows exactly where they were first made.

C) No one knows for what purpose they were invented.

D) No one knows what they will look like in the future.

17. [[201501.mp4#t=12:36.481|12:36]] 

A) Measure the speed of wind.	

B) Give warnings of danger.	

C) Pass on secret messages.

D) Carry ropes across rivers.

18. [[201501.mp4#t=12:56.441|12:56]] 

A) To find out the strength of silk for kites.	

B) To test the effects of the lightning rod.	

C) To prove that lightning is electricity.

D) To protect houses against lightning. 

Questions 19 to 22 are based on the passage you have just heard. [[201501.mp4#t=13:15.965|13:15]] 

19. [[201501.mp4#t=15:09.162|15:09]] 

A) She was born with a talent for languages.	

B) She was trained to be an interpreter.	

C) She can speak several languages.

D) She enjoys teaching languages.

20. [[201501.mp4#t=15:27.384|15:27]] 

A) They want to learn as many foreign languages as possible.

B) They have an intense interest in cross-cultural interactions.

C) They acquire an immunity to culture shock.

D) They would like to live abroad permanently.

21. [[201501.mp4#t=15:48.418|15:48]] 

A) She became an expert in horse racing.

B) She learned to appreciate classical music.

C) She was able to translate for a German sports judge.

D) She got a chance to visit several European countries.

22. [[201501.mp4#t=16:09.353|16:09]] 

A) Take part in a cooking competition.	

B) Taste the beef and give her comment.	

C) Teach vocabulary for food in English.

D) Give cooking lessons on Western food.

Questions 23 to 25 are based on the passage you have just heard. [[201501.mp4#t=16:29.054|16:29]] 

23. [[201501.mp4#t=18:14.077|18:14]] 

A) He had only a third-grade education.	

B) He once threatened to kill his teacher.	

C) He often helped his mother do housework.

D) He grew up in a poor single-parent family.

24. [[201501.mp4#t=18:33.336|18:33]] 

A) Stupid.	B) Active.	

C) Brave.  D) Careless.

25. [[201501.mp4#t=18:55.499|18:55]] 

A) Watch educational TV programs only.	

B) Write two book reports a week.	

C) Help with housework.

D) Keep a diary.

### Section C 

Directions: In this section, you will hear a passage three times. When the passage is read for the first time, you should listen carefully for its general idea. When the passage is read for the second time, you are required to fill in the blanks with the exact words you have just heard. Finally, when the passage is read for the third time, you should check what you have written. [[201501.mp4#t=19:45.501|19:45]] 

When you look up at the night sky, what do you see? There are other **26**   bodies out there besides the moon and stars. One of the most **27** of these is a comet ( 彗 星 ).

Comets were formed around the same time the Earth was formed. They are **28**   ice and other frozen liquids and gases. **29** these "dirty snowballs" begin to orbit the sun, just as the planets do.

As a comet gets closer to the sun, some gases in it begin to unfreeze. They **30**   dust particles from the comet to form a huge cloud. As the comet gets even nearer to the sun, a solar wind blows the cloud behind the comet, thus forming its tail. The tail and the **31** fuzzy (模糊的) atmosphere around a comet are **32** that can help identify this **33** in the night sky.

In any given year, about a dozen known comets come close to the sun in their orbits. The average person can’t see them all, of course. Usually there is only one or  two a year bright enough to be seen with the **34** eye. Comet Hale-Bopp, discovered in 1995, was an unusually bright comet. Its orbit brought it **35** close to the Earth, within 122 million miles of it. But Hale-Bopp came a long way on its earthly visit. It won’t be back for another four thousand years or so.